Docs updates for Consul API Gateway v0.4.0 (#14196)
hashicorp/consul: website/content/docs/release-notes/consul-api-gateway/v0_4_x.mdx

---
layout: docs
page_title: 0.4.x
description: >-
  Consul API Gateway release notes for version 0.4.x
---

# Consul API Gateway 0.4.0

## Release Highlights

- **Support for Kubernetes Gateway API Version 0.5.0 and v1beta1 APIs:**

>   The `v0.5.0` release of the Kubernetes Gateway API is significant because it
>   marks the growth in maturity to a beta API version (v1beta1) release for some
>   of the key APIs:
>   - GatewayClass
>   - Gateway
>   - HTTPRoute
> 
>   The other APIs (e.g. TCPRoute) are still at the `v1alpha2` stage.
> 
>   Reaching `v1beta1` status has several benefits for users, including greater
>   stability and backward compatibility requirements. Existing fields and allowed
>   options can not be removed or renamed except in a new, major version of the
>   API. Once an API reaches `v1beta1` status, future versions must comply with
>   several backward compatibility requirements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The following API resources have been upgraded to `v1beta1` in Kubernetes Gateway API v0.5.0:

    - `GatewayClass`
    - `Gateway`
    - `HTTPRoute`

    These are key API endpoints Consul API Gateway implements to enable external network clients to access applications and services running in a Consul datacenter. 

  When an API reaches `v1beta1`, it has tighter stricter and backward compatibility requirements. Changing or removing existing fields and configuration options from the API, for example, requires a major version. Future versions must also comply with several backward compatibility requirements.
  
  Other API endpoints, such as `TCPRoute`, are still in `v1alpha2`.
  
  Refer to the [Kubernetes Gateway API documentation](https://kubernetes.io/blog/2022/07/13/gateway-api-graduates-to-beta/) for additional information about the API.
```
Does that flow any better?

Author: Suggested edits introduce minor inaccuracies.

- **URL Path Prefix Rewrite**
  This release introduces support for rewriting a URL's path prefix when routing

>   HTTP traffic. This is configured by adding a `URLRewrite` filter to a
>   `HTTPRoute`. With this feature, the gateway can rewrite the URL path, in a
>   client's HTTP Request, before sending the request to a service. A simple
>   example of this is changing the path from `//store/checkout` to
>   `//cart/checkout`. Please see the product documentation for details on how to
>   configure this feature.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  HTTP traffic. To use this functionality, add a `URLRewrite` filter to an
  `HTTPRoute` configuration. This enables the gateway to rewrite the URL path in a client's HTTP request before sending the request to a service. For example, you could configure the gateway to change the path from `//store/checkout` to `//cart/checkout`. Refer to the [usage documentation](/docs/api-gateway/usage) for additional information.  
```
Mostly just fixing the commas and applying a few adjustments for compliance with the style guide

> ## What's Changed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Changes to the Kubernetes API specification
```
We should avoid contractions; especially in headings. Is this an accurate heading? OR should we just call it "Changes"?

Author: ```suggestion
## What Has Changed
```
This heading is actually in the Release Notes template and should stay consistent across Rel Notes (i.e. not be K8s specific).

- **Reference Policy Renamed to Reference Grant** In v0.5.0 of the Kubernetes

>   Gateway API, `ReferencePolicy` has been renamed to `ReferenceGrant`. This
>   release supports both but `ReferencePolicy` is deprecated and will be removed
>   in a future version of the standard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Gateway API, `ReferencePolicy` has been renamed to `ReferenceGrant`. Consul API Gateway supports both elements, but `ReferencePolicy` is deprecated and will be removed in a future version of the standard.
```

  After upgrading to this version of Consul API Gateway, you should rename all

>   existing `ReferencePolicy`y to `ReferenceGrant`s. Please see the upgrading

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  existing `ReferencePolicy` configurations to `ReferenceGrant`. Refer to the [Upgrades](/docs/api-gateway/upgrades)
```

Author: ```suggestion
  existing `ReferencePolicy`y to `ReferenceGrant`s. Refer to the [Upgrades](/docs/api-gateway/upgrades)
```
